docs/product/decisions/0002-P-uei.md, before:

# 4. EIN or UEI before recording audits?

Introduced: 20220411

## Status

For Discussion

## Context

We are moving the FAC during an identifier transition within the community. Specifically, the transition from the EIN->UEI. 

This raises a number of questions.

1. Do we record both numbers?
2. Do we try and link an old EIN number to a new UEI number?
3. Do we record only the UEI?
4. Do we require the UEI before entering audit data?
5. Do we require the UEI before recording audit data?
6. Do we require the UEI before submitting audit data?


Each has implications, and all of this is subject to discussion.

1. If we begin capturing the EIN now, we will effectively be expected to capture it/hold it for years to come. Why? Do we have a clear product vision for why this is *necessary* or *sufficient* for ongoing operation of the FAC? No case has yet been made.
2. If we record both numbers, we are building a (potentially ad-hoc) mapping between the old and new. This would best be done by sam.gov. However, we have no idea (currently) if an entity might have multiple EINs that must be mapped to UEIs, and so forth. Further, it will be user data, and therefore (for all intents and purposes) untrustworthy and unverifiable. This is the purpose/point of the EIN.
3. There is a clearer case for only recording the UEI, because it is the new identifier of record.
4. Do we make it a blocker to entering any audit data? This would be a serious interruption of user flow, and may have negative repurcussions. It would require a substantial media campaign to alert the community of its necessity.
5. If we block the temporary storage of audit data without a UEI we end up in a space that is effectively as bad as #4. 
6. The difference between *recording* and *submitting* data might be that an audit can be "in progress" as opposed to "certified." That is, we might prevent the final double-certification (by auditee/auditor COs) until a valid UEI is present. However, the entire package could be loaded into the system up to that point. This would likely have the least impact on the end-user workflow. 

Not discussed is whether we can commit/certify an audit without an identifier. This is a non-starter.

## Decision

Subject to discussion. There is discussion related that has been sent to `fac-steering` as well.

## Consequences

Are there legal or ethical implications for suggesting that Entity1 was, historically, Entity2?

There may be an inclination to link UEI to EIN. However, doing so *incorrectly* will introduce *false information* into the FAC. If we are going to do that linkage, we need to decide what our comfort with incorrect linkages is. We will have no way to validate the linkage.

Commit message:

Fixing the commit.
I committed two copies of the same file.

This commits the PDR.

docs/product/decisions/0002-P-uei.md, after:

# 4. EIN or UEI before recording audits?

Introduced: 20220411

## Status

Decided

## Context

The UEI is the new [Universal Entity Identifier](https://sam.gov/content/duns-uei) made available to the public through sam.gov. 

We are moving the FAC during an identifier transition within the community. Specifically, the transition from the DUNS->UEI. 

This raises a number of questions.

1. Do we collect only the UEI?
2. Do we collect both numbers?
3. Do we try and link an old DUNS number to a new UEI number?
4. ~~Do we require the UEI before entering audit data?~~
5. ~~Do we require the UEI before recording audit data?~~
6. ~~Do we require the UEI before submitting audit data?~~

## Decision

To the questions above:

1. We will collect only the UEI.
2. We will not collect or ask for a DUNS number.
3. We will not try and link an old DUNS number to a new UEI.

To be clear, "collect" means "collect as a field on the SF-SAC." Separate conversation may still be needed in engineering regarding whether or not (say) an EIN should be retained from information retreived from sam.gov.

## Consequences

The UEI is intended to be a single source of truth for entities applying for and receiving federal funding. Information like EIN numbers should be linked (and, in some cases, validated against authoritative sources) from and by sam.gov. 

Historical connection to DUNS numbers is out of scope for the MVP. More research is required, but it is likely that this kind of linkage exists elsewhere in government.

The community has never submitted this identifer to the SF-SAC before. This will change the user's experience, but not their reporting burden, because *they should already have a UEI*. That said, we know that auditors are currently preparing the SF-SAC based on *last year's* form, and therefore they are not preparing grantees for this new number, or the UX changes the UEI represent.

So, there are consequences, but our steering committee (and internal discussion on the team) confirms that this is the correct path for the FAC MVP.
