docs/branching.md, before:

# Branching strategy 

We are using a [OneFlow variation](https://www.endoflineblog.com/oneflow-a-git-branching-model-and-workflow#variation-develop-master). This is an approach to keep up the speed of development and be able to identify what code is deployed quickly and easily. We want to keep PRs to `main` small, manageable and continuous. Staging releases on the `prod` branch allow for a stable branch to preview so that stakeholders and people who are providing the relevant quality checks can review the release. Then, the main branch is deployed to Prod using protected tags.

There are two long-lived branches:
 - `main` this is where work starts and this branch is automatically deployed to develop
 - `prod` this branch auto-deploys to staging

 There are three environments:
 - dev [https://fac-dev.app.cloud.gov/](https://fac-dev.app.cloud.gov/)
 - staging [https://fac-staging.app.cloud.gov/](https://fac-staging.app.cloud.gov/)
 - production [https://fac-prod.app.cloud.gov/](https://fac-prod.app.cloud.gov/) production is auto-deployed by using version tags

## Timeline
Week |Monday |Tuesday |Wednesday |Thursday |Friday
--|--|--|--|--|--
Week 1 | | |Merge changes into the `prod` branch to deploy to staging | |
Week 2 | | |Once approved, a maintainer pushes a version tag to deploy to production | Sprint ends |Next Sprint begins|

## Standard development flow

```mermaid
graph TD
    A[branch 1] --> PA
    B[branch 2] --> PA
    C[branch 3] --> PA
    PA( code review & automated tests) --> BA[main]
    BA --> EA{fac-dev}
    BA --> PB(release review & automated tests)
    PB --> BB[branch prod]
    BB --> EB{fac-staging}
    BB --> PC(stakeholder review & automated tests)
    PC --> BC[version tag on prod branch]
    BC --> EC{fac-prod}
```

### Steps:
1. Start a branch from `main` for new work commit changes. When your work is ready, rebase to `main` and clean your commit history. When acceptance criteria is met and tests pass, create a pull request that targets `main`. Tag one or more relevant people for review.
2. Branch is ready for review. The reviewer will test locally for acceptance criteria, readability, security considerations, and good testing practices. Don't review your own PR. Once the PR is merged into`main`, the code will deploy to the dev environment after tests pass.
3. When its time to create a release for review, we will add those changes to `prod`. Pushing to the prod branch will deploy the code to staging after tests pass.
4. The release is reviewed by stakeholders. When it is ready for production, an OROS approver will add a version tag starting with "v". Any changes that were directly on the `prod` branch need to be merged back into the `main` branch with a PR. The tag will trigger an automated deploy to production. There is a GitHub rule to enforce that only `maintainer` role are allowed to add tags starting with "v."

Tips:
- Add initials to your branch name so you can tell where a branch started.
- Add the ticket number to the branch name.
- You can add follow-tags to your git config to make it easier to push tags.
`git config --global push.followTags true`


## Hotfix contingency flow
Solve the problem quickly, and methodologically
```mermaid
graph TD
    A[hotfix branch targets prod] --> PA
    PA(code review & automated tests) --> BA[main]
    BA --> EA{fac-staging}
    BA --> PB(release review& version tag & automated tests)
    PB --> BB[branch prod]
    PB --> EB{fac-prod}
```
Make sure changes are added to `main`
```mermaid
graph TD
    A[hotfix branch targets main] --> PA
    PA(code review & automated tests) --> BA[main]
    PA--> EA{fac-dev}
```

### Steps:
1. Start a branch from the up to date `prod` branch and commit changes the fix on a branch pre-fixed with `hotfix\`. Target the `prod` branch with a PR. When acceptance criteria is met and tests pass, create another pull request that targets `main`.
2. When the branch is ready for review. Test locally for acceptance criteria, look for readability, security considerations, and good testing practices. Don't review your own PR. Once merged into `prod` This will auto deploy to the staging environment after tests pass.
3. The hotfix is reviewed by stakeholders in the staging environment. When it is ready for production, a GitHub maintainer will add a version tag starting with "v".  The tag will trigger an automated deploy to production. There is a GitHub rule to enforce that only `maintainer` role are allowed to add tags starting with "v."
4. Changes need to be merged back into the `main` branch.

Commit message:

Update testing documentation for OWASP

docs/branching.md, after:

# Branching strategy 

We are using a [OneFlow variation](https://www.endoflineblog.com/oneflow-a-git-branching-model-and-workflow#variation-develop-master). This is an approach to keep up the speed of development and be able to identify what code is deployed quickly and easily. We want to keep PRs to `main` small, manageable and continuous. Staging releases on the `prod` branch allow for a stable branch to preview so that stakeholders and people who are providing the relevant quality checks can review the release. Then, the main branch is deployed to Prod using protected tags.

There are two long-lived branches:
 - `main` this is where work starts and this branch is automatically deployed to develop
 - `prod` this branch auto-deploys to staging

 There are three environments:
 - dev [https://fac-dev.app.cloud.gov/](https://fac-dev.app.cloud.gov/)
 - staging [https://fac-staging.app.cloud.gov/](https://fac-staging.app.cloud.gov/)
 - production [https://fac-prod.app.cloud.gov/](https://fac-prod.app.cloud.gov/) production is auto-deployed by using version tags

## Timeline
Week |Monday |Tuesday |Wednesday |Thursday |Friday
--|--|--|--|--|--
Week 1 | | |Merge changes into the `prod` branch to deploy to staging | |
Week 2 | | |Once approved, a maintainer pushes a version tag to deploy to production | Sprint ends |Next Sprint begins|

## Standard development flow

```mermaid
graph TD
    A[branch 1] --> PA
    B[branch 2] --> PA
    C[branch 3] --> PA
    PA( code review & automated tests) --> BA[main]
    BA --> EA{fac-dev}
    BA --> PB(release review & automated tests)
    PB --> BB[branch prod]
    BB --> EB{fac-staging}
    BB --> PC(stakeholder review & automated tests)
    PC --> BC[version tag on prod branch]
    BC --> EC{fac-prod}
```

### Steps:
1. Start a branch from `main` for new work commit changes. When your work is ready, rebase to `main` and clean your commit history. When acceptance criteria is met and tests pass, create a pull request that targets `main`. Tag one or more relevant people for review.
2. Branch is ready for review. The reviewer will test locally for acceptance criteria, readability, security considerations, and good testing practices. Don't review your own PR. Once the PR is merged into`main`, the code will deploy to the dev environment after tests pass.
3. When its time to create a release for review, we will add those changes to `prod`. Pushing to the prod branch will deploy the code to staging after tests pass.
4. The release is reviewed by stakeholders. When it is ready for production, an OROS approver will add a version tag starting with "v". Any changes that were directly on the `prod` branch need to be merged back into the `main` branch with a PR. The tag will trigger an automated deploy to production. There is a GitHub rule to enforce that only `maintainer` role are allowed to add tags starting with "v."

Tips:
- Add initials to your branch name so you can tell where a branch started.
- Add the ticket number to the branch name.
- You can add follow-tags to your git config to make it easier to push tags.
`git config --global push.followTags true`

See [testing.md](https://github.com/GSA-TTS/FAC/blob/main/docs/testing.md) for details about what tests are run when.

## Hotfix contingency flow
Solve the problem quickly, and methodologically
```mermaid
graph TD
    A[hotfix branch targets prod] --> PA
    PA(code review & automated tests) --> BA[main]
    BA --> EA{fac-staging}
    BA --> PB(release review& version tag & automated tests)
    PB --> BB[branch prod]
    PB --> EB{fac-prod}
```
Make sure changes are added to `main`
```mermaid
graph TD
    A[hotfix branch targets main] --> PA
    PA(code review & automated tests) --> BA[main]
    PA--> EA{fac-dev}
```

### Steps:
1. Start a branch from the up to date `prod` branch and commit changes the fix on a branch pre-fixed with `hotfix\`. Target the `prod` branch with a PR. When acceptance criteria is met and tests pass, create another pull request that targets `main`.
2. When the branch is ready for review. Test locally for acceptance criteria, look for readability, security considerations, and good testing practices. Don't review your own PR. Once merged into `prod` This will auto deploy to the staging environment after tests pass.
3. The hotfix is reviewed by stakeholders in the staging environment. When it is ready for production, a GitHub maintainer will add a version tag starting with "v".  The tag will trigger an automated deploy to production. There is a GitHub rule to enforce that only `maintainer` role are allowed to add tags starting with "v."
4. Changes need to be merged back into the `main` branch.
