docs/secrets.md, before:

# Secrets

We use [encrypted secrets](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/security-guides/encrypted-secrets) to store sensitive information and deploy automatically to cloud.gov.

## Contents

- [Secrets](#secrets)
  - [Contents](#contents)
  - [Tools](#tools)
  - [Repository Secrets](#repository-secrets)
  - [Service Account](#service-account)
  - [Rotating Credentials](#rotating-credentials)
  - [Local Testing](#local-testing)

## Tools

* [Github Actions](https://github.com/features/actions)

## Repository Secrets

Secrets are stored in repository secrets located in the repository settings on Github.

*Note that only an admin can add or remove repository secrets.*

## Service Account

To deploy to cloud.gov automatically, we have a `space-deployer` [service account](https://cloud.gov/docs/services/cloud-gov-service-account/) that holds a service key with unique credentials.  

The service account credentials are stored in the repository secrets under:

- `CF_USERNAME`
- `CF_PASSWORD`

## Rotating Credentials

The service account credentials should be rotated every 90 days. 

To rotate credentials associated with a service key, follow the steps [here](https://cloud.gov/docs/services/cloud-gov-service-account/) to delete and recreate the service key.

```shell
cf delete-service-key my-service-account my-service-key
cf create-service-key my-service-account my-service-key
cf service-key my-service-account my-service-key
```

## Local Testing

[Act](https://github.com/nektos/act) can be used to test Github Actions locally and can handle secrets in `.secrets`.  

To test pushing to cloud.gov locally with the [deploy.yml](.github/workflows/deploy.yml) workflow:

1. `$ touch .secrets`
2. Create a [space-deployer service account](https://cloud.gov/docs/services/cloud-gov-service-account/) and copy the username and password into `.secrets` under `CF_USERNAME=` and `CF_PASSWORD=`.
3. Run act: `$ act`

Commit message:

Documented SAM.gov API Keys
Added development and secrets documentation for using and managing SAM.gov API keys

docs/secrets.md, after:

# Secrets

We use [encrypted secrets](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/security-guides/encrypted-secrets) to store sensitive information and deploy automatically to cloud.gov.

## Contents

- [Secrets](#secrets)
  - [Contents](#contents)
  - [Tools](#tools)
  - [Repository Secrets](#repository-secrets)
  - [Cloud.gov Service Account](#cloudgov-service-account)
  - [SAM.gov API System Account](#samgov-api-system-account)
  - [Rotating Credentials](#rotating-credentials)
  - [Local Testing](#local-testing)

## Tools

* [Github Actions](https://github.com/features/actions)

## Repository Secrets

Secrets are stored in repository secrets located in the repository settings on Github.

*Note that only an admin can add or remove repository secrets.*

## Cloud.gov Service Account

To deploy to cloud.gov automatically, we have a `space-deployer` [service account](https://cloud.gov/docs/services/cloud-gov-service-account/) that holds a service key with unique credentials.  

The service account credentials are stored in the repository secrets under:

- `CF_USERNAME`
- `CF_PASSWORD`

## SAM.gov API System Account

To use the SAM.gov API, we will have a `system account` [system account](https://www.fsd.gov/gsafsd_sp?id=gsafsd_kb_articles&sys_id=f8426db91b594d9006b09796bc4bcb52) that holds a system account API key.  

The system account API key will be stored in the repository secrets under:

- `SAM_API_KEY`

## Rotating Credentials

The Cloud.gov service account and SAM.gov API Key credentials should be rotated every 90 days. 

To rotate credentials associated with a cloud.gov service key, follow the steps [here](https://cloud.gov/docs/services/cloud-gov-service-account/) to delete and recreate the service key.

```shell
cf delete-service-key my-service-account my-service-key
cf create-service-key my-service-account my-service-key
cf service-key my-service-account my-service-key
```

To rotate the API key associated with a SAM.gov system account, follow the steps [here](https://www.fsd.gov/sys_attachment.do?sys_id=5462e13d1b594d9006b09796bc4bcbd2) to delete and recreate the API key.

## Local Testing

[Act](https://github.com/nektos/act) can be used to test Github Actions locally and can handle secrets in `.secrets`.  

To test pushing to cloud.gov locally with the [deploy.yml](.github/workflows/deploy.yml) workflow:

1. `$ touch .secrets`
2. Create a [space-deployer service account](https://cloud.gov/docs/services/cloud-gov-service-account/) and copy the username and password into `.secrets` under `CF_USERNAME=` and `CF_PASSWORD=`.
3. Create a [system account API key](https://www.fsd.gov/sys_attachment.do?sys_id=5462e13d1b594d9006b09796bc4bcbd2) and copy the API key into `.secrets` under `SAM_API_KEY=`.
4. Run act: `$ act`
