docs/testing.md, before:

# Testing

We use [Django's test execution framework](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/4.0/topics/testing/) along with select 3rd party packages to implement and execute tests for our python code.

## Contents

- [Testing](#testing)
  - [Contents](#contents)
  - [Packages](#packages)
  - [Running the tests](#running-the-tests)
  - [Writing new tests](#writing-new-tests)
  - [Testing Actions Locally](#testing-actions-locally)
  - [Accessibility](#accessibility)
  - [Security Scans](#security-scans)
  - [Linting](#linting)
- [End-to-end testing](#end-to-end-testing)

## Packages
 - [model_bakery](https://model-bakery.readthedocs.io/en/latest/), to help create data and instances within our tests

## Running the tests

The test suite is run with Django's `test` management command. A number of helpful arguments and options are available, [check the Django docs for details.](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/4.0/topics/testing/overview/#running-tests-1)

```shell
# Run the whole test suite
docker compose run web python manage.py test

# Run only the tests within the `audit` app
docker compose run web python manage.py test audit

# Run only the tests within the `audit.test_models` module
docker compose run web python manage.py test audit.test_models

# Run only the tests within the `audit.test_models.SingleAuditChecklistTests` class
docker compose run web python manage.py test audit.test_models.SingleAuditChecklistTests
```
We are configured to require 90% test coverage. If a file should not be counted for test coverage, it can be added to the `.coveragerc` file with an explanation. For example, we don't need tests for environment specific settings so that is added there.

## Writing new tests

We write tests for new and modified functionality specific to this project. A few examples:

We **do** write tests for:
* Class methods on Django models implemented by us, like `__str__`

We **don't** write tests for:
* Asserting that the built-in `models.Charfield` checks the length of an incoming `string` against the `max_length` attribute

## Testing Actions Locally

[Act](https://github.com/nektos/act) can be used to run our Django testing workflow [test.yml](.github/workflows/test.yml) locally:

```shell
# Run act with the act_base platform
act test --platform ubuntu-latest=lucasalt/act_base:latest
```

## Accessibility

We use a combination of [Lighthouse-ci](https://github.com/GoogleChrome/lighthouse-ci) and [Pa11y](https://pa11y.org/) for accessibility testing.

Accessibility tests are executed as part of our CI/CD pipeline on each PR to the `main` branch, commit to the `main` branch, and PR into the `prod` branch.

To run Lighthouse or pa11y locally, install the dependencies on your machine and outside the docker container, run the following commands.

```shell
npm run test:a11y:lighthouse # to run lighthouse
npm run test:a11y:pa11y      # to run pa11y
```

## Security scans
#### OWASP ZAP
We're using the [OWASP ZAP baseline scan](https://github.com/marketplace/actions/owasp-zap-baseline-scan) in GitHub actions. We have a config file in the workflows folder that governs pass or fail for each test.

Triggers for these scans:
 - Scan the dev instance after deploying to dev
 - Scan the dev instance before deploying to staging
 - Scan the staging instance before deploying to prod
 - Scan the prod instance after deploying to prod

To run locally, pull the container:
```
docker pull owasp/zap2docker-stable
```
Then you can run the scan. Here is an example running a basic scan against our dev instance. This is being run from the top level folder.
```
docker run -v $(pwd):/zap/wrk/:rw -t owasp/zap2docker-stable zap-baseline.py \
-t https://fac-dev.app.cloud.gov/ -c zap.conf
```

#### Bandit
We are using [bandit](https://bandit.readthedocs.io/en/latest/) for static code analysis of our python code.

Run this locally via docker:
```
 docker compose run web bandit -r crt_portal/
```

Bandit tests are executed as part of our CI/CD pipeline on each PR to the `main` branch, commit to the `main` branch, and PR into the `prod` branch.

## Linting

We use a variety of linters on the project:

* flake8 - error and style checker
* Black - code formatter
* mypy - type annotation checker
* djlint - HTML formatter and linter
* eslint - JS static code analysis and linter
* stylelint - CSS linter

You can run most of them directly after installing the app's dependencies (i.e. `black .`).

You can also run most of them as one command with `make lint`.

Like with Bandit, new code will need to pass all of these to be merged into the `main` branch.

# End-to-end testing

We use Cypress to do end-to-end testing of the application. Tests are defined
in files in [backend/cypress/e2e/](/backend/cypress/e2e). Run cypress with `npx cypress open`.

## Testing behind Login.gov

 For tests that run against our existing Cloud.gov environments, we can't use
 our `DISABLE_AUTH` environment variable to allow the end-to-end tests access
 to our authenticated pages. Instead, we need to use an actual Login.gov
 sandbox account to log in.

 We have a Google Group <fac-gov-test-users@gsa.gov> to provide an email
 address for those test users. Additional test users can be created using that
 email address with different values after a plus sign, e.g.
 <fac-gov-test-users+staging@gsa.gov>.

 When creating a new Login.gov sandbox account with an email address of that
 form, after confirming the email address in the email that was sent to the
 Google Group, create a random password and record it locally, ideally in a
 KeePassXC password vault. When the account creation flow asks to set up a
 second factor, choose "Authentication Application". On the next screen where
 you would normally use a QR code to configure an authenticator application,
 there is a text box with a secret key labeled "enter this code manually into
 your authentication app". You need to save that secret key alongside the
 password.

 To pass that email address, password, and secret key into Cypress, set the
 environment variables `CYPRESS_LOGIN_TEST_EMAIL`, `CYPRESS_LOGIN_TEST_PASSWORD`, and
 `CYPRESS_LOGIN_TEST_OTP_SECRET`. Obviously, do not store these values in our
 Github repository. To use them in a Github Actions workflow, use the [Github
 Actions secrets
 store](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/security-guides/encrypted-secrets)

Commit message:

Cypress test to login as auditee and certify (#1915)
Closes #1585

In this PR:
Adding logout command
Tweaking login command so that you can optionally specify credentials
Cypress test now logs out, then logs in with an auditee account, who then performs the auditee cert

Testing:
Cypress tests should pass
New env vars required: LOGIN_TEST_EMAIL_AUDITEE, LOGIN_TEST_PASSWORD_AUDITEE, LOGIN_TEST_OTP_SECRET_AUDITEE
This email will be used for the auditee info form and will be used to perform the auditee cert
You can use values from the FAC dev keys doc
These have been added to the GH staging env vars as well

---------

Co-authored-by: Phil Dominguez <“philip.dominguez@gsa.gov”>
Co-authored-by: Edward Zapata <edward.zapata@gsa.gov>

docs/testing.md, after:

# Testing

We use [Django's test execution framework](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/4.0/topics/testing/) along with select 3rd party packages to implement and execute tests for our python code.

## Contents

- [Testing](#testing)
  - [Contents](#contents)
  - [Packages](#packages)
  - [Running the tests](#running-the-tests)
  - [Writing new tests](#writing-new-tests)
  - [Testing Actions Locally](#testing-actions-locally)
  - [Accessibility](#accessibility)
  - [Security Scans](#security-scans)
  - [Linting](#linting)
- [End-to-end testing](#end-to-end-testing)

## Packages
 - [model_bakery](https://model-bakery.readthedocs.io/en/latest/), to help create data and instances within our tests

## Running the tests

The test suite is run with Django's `test` management command. A number of helpful arguments and options are available, [check the Django docs for details.](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/4.0/topics/testing/overview/#running-tests-1)

```shell
# Run the whole test suite
docker compose run web python manage.py test

# Run only the tests within the `audit` app
docker compose run web python manage.py test audit

# Run only the tests within the `audit.test_models` module
docker compose run web python manage.py test audit.test_models

# Run only the tests within the `audit.test_models.SingleAuditChecklistTests` class
docker compose run web python manage.py test audit.test_models.SingleAuditChecklistTests
```
We are configured to require 90% test coverage. If a file should not be counted for test coverage, it can be added to the `.coveragerc` file with an explanation. For example, we don't need tests for environment specific settings so that is added there.

## Writing new tests

We write tests for new and modified functionality specific to this project. A few examples:

We **do** write tests for:
* Class methods on Django models implemented by us, like `__str__`

We **don't** write tests for:
* Asserting that the built-in `models.Charfield` checks the length of an incoming `string` against the `max_length` attribute

## Testing Actions Locally

[Act](https://github.com/nektos/act) can be used to run our Django testing workflow [test.yml](.github/workflows/test.yml) locally:

```shell
# Run act with the act_base platform
act test --platform ubuntu-latest=lucasalt/act_base:latest
```

## Accessibility

We use a combination of [Lighthouse-ci](https://github.com/GoogleChrome/lighthouse-ci) and [Pa11y](https://pa11y.org/) for accessibility testing.

Accessibility tests are executed as part of our CI/CD pipeline on each PR to the `main` branch, commit to the `main` branch, and PR into the `prod` branch.

To run Lighthouse or pa11y locally, install the dependencies on your machine and outside the docker container, run the following commands.

```shell
npm run test:a11y:lighthouse # to run lighthouse
npm run test:a11y:pa11y      # to run pa11y
```

## Security scans
#### OWASP ZAP
We're using the [OWASP ZAP baseline scan](https://github.com/marketplace/actions/owasp-zap-baseline-scan) in GitHub actions. We have a config file in the workflows folder that governs pass or fail for each test.

Triggers for these scans:
 - Scan the dev instance after deploying to dev
 - Scan the dev instance before deploying to staging
 - Scan the staging instance before deploying to prod
 - Scan the prod instance after deploying to prod

To run locally, pull the container:
```
docker pull owasp/zap2docker-stable
```
Then you can run the scan. Here is an example running a basic scan against our dev instance. This is being run from the top level folder.
```
docker run -v $(pwd):/zap/wrk/:rw -t owasp/zap2docker-stable zap-baseline.py \
-t https://fac-dev.app.cloud.gov/ -c zap.conf
```

#### Bandit
We are using [bandit](https://bandit.readthedocs.io/en/latest/) for static code analysis of our python code.

Run this locally via docker:
```
 docker compose run web bandit -r crt_portal/
```

Bandit tests are executed as part of our CI/CD pipeline on each PR to the `main` branch, commit to the `main` branch, and PR into the `prod` branch.

## Linting

We use a variety of linters on the project:

* flake8 - error and style checker
* Black - code formatter
* mypy - type annotation checker
* djlint - HTML formatter and linter
* eslint - JS static code analysis and linter
* stylelint - CSS linter

You can run most of them directly after installing the app's dependencies (i.e. `black .`).

You can also run most of them as one command with `make lint`.

Like with Bandit, new code will need to pass all of these to be merged into the `main` branch.

# End-to-end testing

We use Cypress to do end-to-end testing of the application. Tests are defined
in files in [backend/cypress/e2e/](/backend/cypress/e2e). Run cypress with `npx cypress open`.

## Testing behind Login.gov

 For tests that run against our existing Cloud.gov environments, we can't use
 our `DISABLE_AUTH` environment variable to allow the end-to-end tests access
 to our authenticated pages. Instead, we need to use an actual Login.gov
 sandbox account to log in.

 We have a Google Group <fac-gov-test-users@gsa.gov> to provide an email
 address for those test users. Additional test users can be created using that
 email address with different values after a plus sign, e.g.
 <fac-gov-test-users+staging@gsa.gov>.

 When creating a new Login.gov sandbox account with an email address of that
 form, after confirming the email address in the email that was sent to the
 Google Group, create a random password and record it locally, ideally in a
 KeePassXC password vault. When the account creation flow asks to set up a
 second factor, choose "Authentication Application". On the next screen where
 you would normally use a QR code to configure an authenticator application,
 there is a text box with a secret key labeled "enter this code manually into
 your authentication app". You need to save that secret key alongside the
 password.

 To pass that email address, password, and secret key into Cypress, set the
 environment variables `CYPRESS_LOGIN_TEST_EMAIL`, `CYPRESS_LOGIN_TEST_PASSWORD`, and
 `CYPRESS_LOGIN_TEST_OTP_SECRET`. You'll need similar credentials for
 `CYPRESS_LOGIN_TEST_EMAIL_AUDITEE`, `CYPRESS_LOGIN_TEST_PASSWORD_AUDITEE`, and
 `CYPRESS_LOGIN_TEST_OTP_SECRET_AUDITEE`. These can be the same values, but ideally
 they'll belong to a different account. Obviously, do not store these values in our
 Github repository. To use them in a Github Actions workflow, use the [Github
 Actions secrets
 store](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/security-guides/encrypted-secrets)
